Title: tmpwatch
Summary: tmpwatch is a nifty tool that will remove files which haven't been accessed for a specified period of time.  It is great for cleaning out any "junk" directory where you are constantly stashing things.
Thumb: http://cdn.morguefile.com/imageData/public/files/m/mconnors/preview/fldr_2003_02_09/file0001456131357.jpg

Introduction
------------

I used to use `/tmp` as my "junk" directory. Random notes to myself, browser downloads, test [scripts](cat:coding), etc would all live there. It was great since it was separate from my more organized files and would automatically get cleaned out every reboot. The only problem is when my laptop would run out of juice or I would reboot to apply the latest kernel, I would often be kicking myself for not moving stuff out of `/tmp` earlier. I changed things up and now began using `~/Downloads` as my main "junk" bin. It was great, since nothing ever got deleted until I began drowning in a sea of random clutter.

Then I remembered [tmpwatch][]: a nifty [Linux](tag:Linux) [tool](tag:utility) that will remove files and directories from the [file system](tag:file_system) which haven't been **accessed** ( not just unmodified ) for a specified period of time. It is great for cleaning out any "junk" directory where you are constantly stashing things. There is a wealth of options: you can exclude paths, change what is deleted, and much more. Look up [the man page][tmpwatch].

[tmpwatch]: http://linux.die.net/main/8/tmpwatch

Examples:
----------

Remove regular [files](tag:file_system) that haven't been accessed for at least 17 days

    tmpwatch 17d ~/Downloads

Don't actually delete, just show what would be deleted

    tmpwatch --test 17d ~/Downloads

Remove everything ( regular files, symlinks, directories, etc ) that haven't been accessed for at least 17 days

    tmpwatch --all 17d ~/Downloads

Remove files that haven't been accessed for at least 17 days except for GIFs and files in `todo`

    tmpwatch --exclude="todo" --exclr,ude-pattern="*.gif" 17d ~/Downloads
